 Hey, ever wondered what it takes to learn machine learning interviews at dream companies like Google DeepMind, Amazon and Nuro? Well, today we're gonna talk about the resume that you got me internship interviews with these fan companies and I'll be sharing with you 7 important tips that you can easily apply to your resume. But that's not all. Stay tuned until the end because we'll then uncover the single most important reason why I got invited to the interviews. Let's get started, shall we? How long do you think it takes a recruiter to look at your resume? It takes an average of 7 seconds. Big tech companies receive hundreds, if not thousands of applications every day. So, one of the simplest, yet most important tips right away is not to exceed one page for your resume. Some absolute no-goes include adding obvious things like knowing how to use macOS or Windows. That's like an English teacher saying he knows how to speak English. Also, I'm sorry to tell you, but recruiters also don't really care about your hobbies. We will later get to a simple question you can ask yourself to help you remove unnecessary information. But for now, also don't add too much information in your education section. The companies hire you for your skills and experience, which might be a product of your education, but no real demonstration. Try putting yourself in the shoes of your recruiter, Joe. He has to go through hundreds of same-looking and boring resumes and only takes 7 seconds to glance over them. That means he'll never read a dull summary section. Instead, he'll directly look for the minimum requirements of skills. So place the skills section directly at the top and replace the summary. You can see mine was at the bottom and I did still get the interviews, but I have already changed it for future applications. Okay, Joe now sees that you at least list the skills he's looking for. You now need to briefly demonstrate those skills and convince him that your skills have somewhat of a substance. You need to show off your experience. Ideally, you describe your actual internship or job experience first and then the projects. But if you have more or just more relevant experience with personal or open source projects, go with projects first and experience second. Then, if you have any, mention selected publications, and finally your education section. The next tip is the simple question you should always ask yourself to not add irrelevant information. So what Imagine Joe is reading a statement on your resume and thinks to himself so what That bad You just wasted his precious seconds and in the extreme case he'll just move on to the next resume. For example, I edit the courses Deep Learning 1 and Automatic Image Analysis. So what? What does this tell the recruiter? He, and you for example as well, have no idea what is actually taught in those courses. Instead, I demonstrate deep learning and computer vision knowledge via my experiences and projects. So also as a note for myself, once I have more experience to add to my resume, I will try to remove those mentioned courses and only include relevant information. Now to make it even easier for Joe to find the most relevant information, you can use bold text for important keywords. But of course, don't add too much because then once again, nothing actually stands out. Speaking of those important skills and keywords, the next tip is to really be aware of your wording. As mentioned, your recruiter, Joe, or even the automatic resume scanner will look for certain keywords in a predefined list. But Boris, how do I know which words specifically they are looking for? Well, we of course can't say for certain, but we can look at the required qualifications in the job description. There, we can see some specific skills they are looking for, which will very likely be important in your resume. And those can of course vary from listing to listing. Okay, as mentioned, after making it as easy as possible for your recruiter to find the relevant skills, you need to prove your skills. You here need to find a good balance between technical details and abstraction, because your recruiters are most likely no researchers themselves, but over time have definitely learned what technical words are good and what are bad. For example, here I mentioned I built a large and custom dataset. So what? That on its own does not say much. I then go ahead and explain how I did that, demonstrating and specifically mentioning the technical skills and frameworks I used to achieve that result, like implementing a certain module and database using Python, Pandas and ProsqrSQL. Or here I demonstrate the technical skill of experiment tracking and combine it with my ability to use a certain framework such as weights and biases. Or when mentioning something like the F1 score I show that I am aware of this particular metric and the process of evaluation in general Speaking of the F1 score the next tip is to always try to quantify your results whenever you can What do you think sounds more professional Develop a model with good performance or develop a model with an F1 score of 0 Or what do you think sounds better here? Develop a deep reinforcement learning based agent with a very high success rate or develop a deep reinforcement learning based agent with a success rate of 95%. Numbers often make you seem more educated and invested in the project because you know the details of it. Many metrics are also more intuitive for the recruiter. A success rate of 95% is very intuitive. An F1 score of 0.39 is perhaps not that intuitive if he doesn't know what that is, but you get the point. If you have done a good job in those first 7 or now even 20 seconds, Joe has deemed you worthy of his time and wants to know more about you. Again, make it as easy as possible for him to learn more about you. The next tip is to provide and embed links to LinkedIn. Ideally, even a personal website, blog posts, and more. I actually have a video on how you can very easily create your own academic website, and the link will be in the info card. That said, what you might want to see on your website, or directly linked on your resume, is an interesting blog post describing a project of yours. Sure, you should also link to your GitHub, but it's much more difficult to look at the code base to understand more about the project. Writing an accompanying blog post to the project just makes understanding your experience and skills much easier. See the pattern here? Try to make the life of the recruiter as easy as possible. Now you might be thinking, but I don't have any meaningful projects or work experience. But that often just isn't the case. It's all about how you sell yourself. We all want to be humble and friendly. But this is a competition. This is literally the time to flex as much as possible and go into winning mode. Over exaggerate, but don't lie. Once you're in the interview, you might need to be able to back up your claims. For example, develop, implement and tune Graph Neural Network sounds like I completed the full model, but I only really got started with the basic implementation and ran only preliminary experiments to figure out some basic settings. I didn't tune the whole model to a production ready version. I mean, I did that in other projects and could explain how to do it in the interview, but we're here talking about how to design your resume to get that interview in the first place. So really, don't undervalue yourself, especially not with things like beginner or even intermediate level Python skills. If you really have to you can explain yourself later in the interview Having a good and well resume is very important but won magically lend you an interview. The recruiters are looking for specific skills they need for a specific project. They might consider multiple experiences from your application, but in the end, your skillset needs to fit one project. Now, why did I get invited to those interviews with such a, in my opinion, mediocre resume? For my Google DeepMind internship, I applied for a research position in multimodal learning. That's more or less all I knew about it. But luckily for me, at that time, RLHF was hyped and the team wanted to use it in their research. That's why they were interested in me, because of my experience with RL, especially my project where I re-implemented a reinforcement learning paper. During the interview, we mainly talked about that little project. That is why adding experience that is relevant for the specific position you are applying to is so important. The team at Amazon, on the other hand, was specifically interested in me because of my graph neural network modeling experience for traffic flow prediction. That was pretty much the exact same thing they were researching in their group. And Neuro was interested in a combination of both skills, autonomous navigation and graph neural networks, because they are developing self-driving delivery cars and streets are represented as a graph. I mean, look, I've no experience with recommender systems, so why would a team want to choose me? All that means, look for job listings or people who would need you and your skills specifically. Those can come from job experience or other projects. Take your time and try to make your resume as fitting as possible, following the tips I just shared. And if you want me to help you directly with your specific resume, feel free to simply book a one-on-one call with me. A link will be at the very top of the video description. That said, I applied to many job or internship openings using the standard application route and LinkedIn. I applied to a lot of different openings I just wasn't the best fit for. Doing that still got me my mentioned interviews at Amazon and Neuro. But the success rate for landing interviews was not all too high. The real reason I got my Google DeepMind interview besides having a good resume design, was that I didn't follow this conventional application approach. This, by the way, also got me my current student researcher position working for my ex-meta professor. This other approach had a much higher success rate, so you'll most likely want to watch the next video right here, and if it's not up yet, don't forget to subscribe to not miss the upload. Bye-bye!

Source URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FpW8aiJPvts